My ESL teacher, who came to Germany in 1986, likes to ride his mountain bike.
The heavy rain, which was unusual for the time of year, destroyed most of the plants in my garden.
Einstein, who was born in Germany, is famous for his theory of relativity.
The boy, whose parents both work as teachers at the school, started a fire in the classroom.
My mother's company, which makes mobile phones, is moving soon from Frankfurt to London.
In the summer I'm going to visit Italy, where my brother lives.
The insect, a large, hairy-legged cockroach that has spied my bowl of oatmeal, is crawling across the kitchen table.
During the dinner conversation, Clifford, the messiest eater at the table, spewed mashed potatoes like an erupting volcano.
Genette's bedroom desk, the biggest disaster area in the house, is a collection of overdue library books, dirty plates, computer components, old mail, cat hair, and empty potato chip bags.
A hot-tempered tennis player, Robbie charged the umpire and tried to crack the poor man's skull with a racket.
Upset by the bad call, the crowd cheered Robbie, a hot-tempered tennis player who charged the umpire and tried to crack the poor man's skull with a racket.
Any jackass can kick down a barn, but it takes a good carpenter to build one.
The drought had lasted now for 10 million years, and the reign of the terrible lizards had long since ended.
The dog buried his bone, and the cat sniffed around it.
Our team tried hard, but we lost the game.
She returned the computer after she noticed it was damaged.
Because I had to catch the train, and as we were short on time, I forgot to pack my toothbrush for our vacation.
You should take your car in for a service because it's starting to make weird noises.
Many years later, as he faced the firing squad, Colonel Aurelian Buendia was to remember that distant afternoon when his father took him to discover ice.
As Grainier drove along in the wagon behind a wide, slow, sand-colored mare, clusters of orange butterflies exploded off the blackish purple piles of bear sign and winked and fluttered magically like leaves without trees.
If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer.
Kate doesn’t like cartoons because they are loud, so she doesn’t watch them.
The dog started barking so the cat ran away and I couldn’t keep up, so I stopped.
Usually I take a walk every day while the sun sets, but it was raining today.
She likes to sleep in but she can get up early if she has work.
Even though she was tired, Abby knew she had to finish the race and she ran to meet her team.
